docs(css): Fx116 - syntax updates for offset-path and ray() (#28348)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/box-edge/index.md

---
title: <box-edge>
slug: Web/CSS/box-edge
page-type: css-type

> spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-box-4/#keywords

Reviewer: i think we're supposed to include a `browser-compat:`, but I guess that can come later.

Author: Yes, I can do that in a follow up PR along with adding some examples

---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`<box-edge>`** value types represent a [box edge](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_box_model/Introduction_to_the_CSS_box_model) keyword, such as [`content-box`](#content-box) and [`border-box`](#border-box). The box-edge keywords are used to define different aspects of an element's box model and how elements are positioned and rendered on screen.

The box-edge keywords are the components of, but not limited to, the data types `<visual-box>`, `<layout-box>`, `<paint-box>`, `<coord-box>`, and `<geometry-box>`. These types are applied to properties such as {{cssxref("transform-box")}} and {{cssxref("background-clip")}}.

## Syntax

```css
<visual-box> = content-box | padding-box | border-box /* also referred to as <box> */
<layout-box> = <box> | margin-box /* also referred to as <shape-box> */
<paint-box> = <box> | fill-box | stroke-box
<coord-box> = <box> | fill-box | stroke-box | view-box

> <geometry-box> = <layout-box> | fill-box | stroke-box | view-box

Author: That's an excellent observation!

- The reason I've mentioned `<shape-box>` in the syntax is because it occurs in the [shape-outside](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/shape-outside) property.
It is defined in the Shapes module spec as:
`<shape-box> = <box> | margin-box` (https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shapes/#typedef-shape-box)
(but the Box module spec defines the data type as `<layout-box>`, so keeping that as is here...)
- The [clip-path](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/clip-path#formal_syntax) formal syntax refers to `<geometry-box>`, `<shape-box>`, and `<box>`. Another reason why I wanted to define what's `<shape-box>` and `<box>`.
- I believe I've seen occurrences of `<box>` in a few other "Formal syntax" sections.
- If we define these alternate terms here, we can point from those property pages to the `<box-edge>` page in the future and update their value descriptions as well.

How about for `<geometry-box>`, we use `<shape-box>` instead of `<layout-box>`? (Because `<shape-box>` is more commonly used, but there are no occurrences of `<layout-box>` in content..yet!)

Updated text:

> ```plain
> <visual-box> = content-box | padding-box | border-box /* the three <box> values */
> <layout-box> = <box> | margin-box /* the <shape-box> values */
> <paint-box> = <box> | fill-box | stroke-box
> <coord-box> = <box> | fill-box | stroke-box | view-box
> <geometry-box> = <shape-box> | fill-box | stroke-box | view-box
> ```

```

### Values

A `<box-edge>` can be of the type `<visual-box>`, `<layout-box>`, `<paint-box>`, `<coord-box>`, or `<geometry-box>`.

- `<visual-box>`

  - : Refers to the rectangular box generated for an element as seen by a user on a web page. It includes the element's content, padding, and border. It excludes the margin area. This value type is used for the {{cssxref("background-clip")}} and {{cssxref("overflow-clip-margin")}} properties.

- `<layout-box>`

>   - : Refers to the space occupied by an element, including its content, padding, border, and margin. This value type is used for layout and positioning purposes. This value type is used for the {{cssxref("shape-outside")}} property.

Author: Done

- `<paint-box>`

>   - : Refers to the area within the layout box that is used to render the content visually. This includes the area where the element's background and borders are painted. It excludes the margin area.

Author: > Do you have know how we can look at a web ref dump?

No idea but it would be good to learn how to.

I guess we keep this description as is for now and update when we have more info

- `<coord-box>`

>   - : Refers to the coordinate box used for positioning and sizing an element within its parent container. It is used to control how content flows around the edges of the box. It excludes the margin area. This value type is used for the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property.

Reviewer: this doesn't seem like the right definition. We're talking about all the values that make up coord-box, not actual coordinate box. Maybe:

```suggestion
  - : Refers to CSS visual box values and their SVG equivalents, including an object bounding box edge (`fill-box`), stroke bounding box edge (`stroke-box`), and the SVG viewport's origin box (`view-box`). It excludes the margin area. This value type is used for the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property.
```

Author: However, in the descriptions of the other data types, we define them as the space, area, or box.

Perhaps I need to update all the data type descriptions to state the possible values?
And also update the description of keywords such as `content-box` and `border-box` to specify the area they enclose instead of referring to the edge. The description of these keywords in the [shape-outside](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/shape-outside#values) property page follows this style.

- `padding-box`

  - : Refers to the edge of the padding of the box. If there is no padding on a side, then the value is the same as `content-box`. In SVG, `padding-box` is treated as `fill-box`. The padding area surrounds the content area.

- `border-box`

  - : Refers to the edge of the border of the box. If there is no border on a side, then the value is the same as `padding-box`. In SVG, `border-box` is treated as `stroke-box`. The border area surrounds the padding area.

- `margin-box`

  - : Refers to the edge of the margin of the box. If there is no margin on a side, then the value is the same as `border-box`. In SVG, `margin-box` is treated as `stroke-box`.

- `fill-box`

  - : Refers to the object bounding box in SVG. In CSS, `fill-box` is treated as `content-box`. It is used to wrap the content around the edges defined by the `coord-box` values.

- `stroke-box`

  - : Refers to the stroke bounding box in SVG. In CSS, `stroke-box` is treated as `border-box`. It is used to define the shape of the element when strokes are applied.

- `view-box`

>   - : Refers to the nearest SVG viewport element's origin box. The origin box is a rectangle with the width and height of the initial SVG user coordinate system established by the {{svgattr("viewBox")}} attribute for that element. The origin box is positioned such that its top left corner is anchored at the coordinate system origin. In CSS, `view-box` treated as `border-box`.

Reviewer: link "coordinate system"
